The western frontier is closed. Our national energy has reached its physical limit. To prevent economic stagnation, I recommend expansion to other territories. We look outward, or we cease to grow.
The government’s primary duty is to maintain a navy large enough to protect its merchant shipping and the national interests linked to that trade.
USS MAINE BLOWN TO HELL! 266 SOULS PERISHED BY SPANISH HAND! THE WAR MUST BE ENDED. How long are the Spaniards to drench Cuba with the blood and tears of her people? How long shall the United States sit idle and indifferent within sound and hearing of rapine and murder?
Now suddenly, without cool deliberation, the nation is hurried into war. America compels a weak nation to fight without consideration of Spain’s earnest, repeated offers to meet every legitimate demand of the United States!
//
I would like to say just a word about the Philippine and Cuban business, for I’ve been criticized a great deal, but I don’t deserve it: (1) We could not give Cuba back to Spain—that would be cowardly and dishonorable. (2) We could not turn the Filipinos over to France or Germany, our commercial rivals in the Orient. (3) We could not leave them to themselves—they were unfit for self-governance. (4) We, therefore, must educate them, uplift, civilize, and Christianize them. The Philippines will stay on the map of the United States. And there it will stay while I am President!
Some of the Filipino tribesmen have horribly mutilated and tortured our captured soldiers. In return, have administered the “water cure," forcing buckets of dirty water into them, and deflating them with rifle butts. We have also built reconcentration camps. Send ammunitions.
We made war on Spain four years ago for doing the very things of which we are now guilty ourselves. We are giving Spain as good reason to interfere with us on the ground of humanity as we had to interfere with her. Doubtless she would interfere if she were strong enough and thought she could acquire some islands in the virtuous act.
We propose an Open Door Policy in China for the following reasons: It will prevent serious conflicts of interest between competing world powers in the Orient. It will protect American business and citizen rights in the region. No nation should get a head start on treatment of commerce and navigation. The Open Door Policy is therefore equal. IF, following success in the Philippines, we must secure our piece of the Chinese market, the most coveted prize in Asia
//
WILSON CALLS CONGRESS FOR MILITARY AID TO OCCUPY VERACRUZ DUE TO RUMOURS OF GERMAN SHIPS UNLOADING AMMUNITIONS. It is a necessary step to protect American interests and restore moral order to our neighbor. Huerta’s regime is a regime of butchers. Democracy must be protected.
WAR ERUPTS IN EUROPE. Wilson’s heart goes out to suffering Allies. Congress retains American neutrality. “NEUTRAL” INTERVENTION? Major American bank J.P. Morgan has loaned over $2 billion to the Allies war effort in Europe. 
BARBARIC GERMAN U-BOAT SANK RMS LUSITANIA. 128 AMERICANS DEAD. The public cries outrage! GERMANY POSES THREAT. Intercepted German telegraph reveals a proposal to Mexico: declare war on the United States, and reclaim the American Southwest. Is war inevitable?
Germany resumes sinking all merchant vessels, regardless of cargo or nationality, to sever British supply lines.
This administration preaches the moral necessity of intervention! Let us not forget the occupation of Veracruz. No news has come out of this “German ship" unloading ammunition on Mexican shores. Are we so blind as to not see this as a maneuver to undermine a government that refused to bow to American interests. To now suggest we must enter this war for the sake of international morality is the height of hypocrisy. We must refuse to sacrifice American lives.
//
After 93 hearings and the review of thousands of documents, the Committee has found extensive evidence that the Great War has reaped enormous financial benefits for private Americans ammunition manufacturers, at the cost of over 53,000 American deaths. While we have uncovered no evidence of a singular, formal conspiracy by these private corporations to trigger our entry into the conflict, it is clear that their lobbying efforts and the nation's financial ties to the Allies may now allow war to be a commercial necessity.
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR NEUTRALITY: Renounce Fourteen Points and League of Nations. Proposing the Neutrality Acts: mandate embargo on all ammunition and inventory of war.
African American population in Northern industrial centers following The Great War.
